README.md, before:

# DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling

[![StandWithUkraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/badges/StandWithUkraine.svg)](https://github.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/blob/main/docs/README.md)

[![SWUbanner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/banner2-direct.svg)](https://github.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/blob/main/docs/README.md)

DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling

## Supported Providers

Most DNS providers **require an API key**, while some may need **additional settings** such as authentication credentials or specific server configurations. All required values must be set in the `.env` file.

| Provider    | Credentials in .env | Requirements  | Status | DNSSEC |
|------------|---------------------|------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| **AnycastDNS** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Bind9** | `API_KEY:BIND_IP` | [bind9-api-server](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server)/[bind9-api-server-sqlite](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server-sqlite) | ✅ | 🚧 |
| **Bunny** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Cloudflare** | `EMAIL:API_KEY` or `API_TOKEN` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **ClouDNS** | `AUTH_ID:AUTH_PASSWORD` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Desec** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **DNSimple** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Hetzner** | `API_KEY` | | 🚧 | ❌ |
| **PowerDNS** | `API_KEY:POWERDNS_IP` | gmysql-dnssec=yes in pdns.conf | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Vultr** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |

## FOSSBilling Module Installation instructions

### 1. Download and Install FOSSBilling:

Start by downloading the latest version of FOSSBilling from the official website (https://fossbilling.org/). Follow the provided instructions to install it.

### 2. Installation and Configuration of DNS hosting module:

First, download this repository. After successfully downloading the repository, move the `Servicedns` directory into the `[FOSSBilling]/modules` directory.

### (BIND9 Module only) 3. Installation of BIND9 API Server:

To use the BIND9 module, you must install the [bind9-api-server](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server) on your master BIND server. This API server allows for seamless integration and management of your DNS zones via API.

Make sure to configure the API server according to your BIND installation parameters to ensure proper synchronization of your DNS zones.

### 4. Activate the DNS hosting module:

Within FOSSBilling, go to **Extensions -> Overview** and activate the `DNS Hosting Product 1.1.0` extension.

Then go to **Products -> Products & Services -> New product** and create a new product of type `Dns`.

Configure your product, and do not forget to select your DNS hosting provider and input the API key on the `Configuration` tab of your product.

## Support

Your feedback and inquiries are invaluable to Namingo's evolutionary journey. If you need support, have questions, or want to contribute your thoughts:

- **Email**: Feel free to reach out directly at [help@namingo.org](mailto:help@namingo.org).

- **Discord**: Or chat with us on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/97R9VCrWgc) channel.
  
- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports or feature requests, please use the [Issues](https://github.com/getnamingo/fossbilling-dns/issues) section of our GitHub repository.

We appreciate your involvement and patience as Namingo continues to grow and adapt.

## 💖 Support This Project

If you find DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling useful, consider donating:

- [Donate via Stripe](https://donate.stripe.com/7sI2aI4jV3Offn28ww)
- BTC: `bc1q9jhxjlnzv0x4wzxfp8xzc6w289ewggtds54uqa`
- ETH: `0x330c1b148368EE4B8756B176f1766d52132f0Ea8`

## Licensing

DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling is licensed under the Apache-2.0 license.

Commit message:

Fixed PowerDNS/BIND issue
Added update instructions

README.md, after:

# DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling

[![StandWithUkraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/badges/StandWithUkraine.svg)](https://github.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/blob/main/docs/README.md)

[![SWUbanner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/banner2-direct.svg)](https://github.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/blob/main/docs/README.md)

DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling

## Supported Providers

Most DNS providers **require an API key**, while some may need **additional settings** such as authentication credentials or specific server configurations. All required values must be set in the `.env` file.

| Provider    | Credentials in .env | Requirements  | Status | DNSSEC |
|------------|---------------------|------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| **AnycastDNS** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Bind9** | `API_KEY:BIND_IP` | [bind9-api-server](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server)/[bind9-api-server-sqlite](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server-sqlite) | ✅ | 🚧 |
| **Bunny** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Cloudflare** | `EMAIL:API_KEY` or `API_TOKEN` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **ClouDNS** | `AUTH_ID:AUTH_PASSWORD` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Desec** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ✅ |
| **DNSimple** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Hetzner** | `API_KEY` | | 🚧 | ❌ |
| **PowerDNS** | `API_KEY:POWERDNS_IP` | gmysql-dnssec=yes in pdns.conf | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Vultr** | `API_KEY` | | ✅ | ❌ |

## FOSSBilling Module Installation instructions

### 1. Download and Install FOSSBilling:

Start by downloading the latest version of FOSSBilling from the official website (https://fossbilling.org/). Follow the provided instructions to install it.

### 2. Installation and Configuration of DNS hosting module:

First, download this repository. After successfully downloading the repository, move the `Servicedns` directory into the `[FOSSBilling]/modules` directory.

### (BIND9 Module only) 3. Installation of BIND9 API Server:

To use the BIND9 module, you must install the [bind9-api-server](https://github.com/getnamingo/bind9-api-server) on your master BIND server. This API server allows for seamless integration and management of your DNS zones via API.

Make sure to configure the API server according to your BIND installation parameters to ensure proper synchronization of your DNS zones.

### 4. Activate the DNS hosting module:

Within FOSSBilling, go to **Extensions -> Overview** and activate the `DNS Hosting Product 1.1.0` extension.

Then go to **Products -> Products & Services -> New product** and create a new product of type `Dns`.

Configure your product, and do not forget to select your DNS hosting provider and input the API key on the `Configuration` tab of your product.

## FOSSBilling Module Update instructions

To update the DNS hosting module to the latest version, download the newest release and replace the existing module files.

### Manual update

1. Download the **latest release** archive from the repository.
2. Extract the archive to a temporary directory.
3. Locate the `Servicedns` directory inside the extracted release.
4. Copy the `Servicedns` directory into `[FOSSBilling]/modules/`, **overwriting** the existing `Servicedns` directory.
5. Clear FOSSBilling cache if applicable and reload the admin panel.

### Update via console

From your server:

```bash
cd /tmp
wget https://github.com/getnamingo/fossbilling-dns/releases/download/v1.1.1/fossbilling-dns-v1.1.1.tar.gz
tar xzf fossbilling-dns-v1.1.1.tar.gz
cd fossbilling-dns-v1.1.1
mv Servicedns /path/to/FOSSBilling/modules/Servicedns
```

After updating, log in to the FOSSBilling admin panel and verify that the module version is updated under Extensions -> Overview.

## Support

Your feedback and inquiries are invaluable to Namingo's evolutionary journey. If you need support, have questions, or want to contribute your thoughts:

- **Email**: Feel free to reach out directly at [help@namingo.org](mailto:help@namingo.org).

- **Discord**: Or chat with us on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/97R9VCrWgc) channel.
  
- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports or feature requests, please use the [Issues](https://github.com/getnamingo/fossbilling-dns/issues) section of our GitHub repository.

We appreciate your involvement and patience as Namingo continues to grow and adapt.

## 💖 Support This Project

If you find DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling useful, consider donating:

- [Donate via Stripe](https://donate.stripe.com/7sI2aI4jV3Offn28ww)
- BTC: `bc1q9jhxjlnzv0x4wzxfp8xzc6w289ewggtds54uqa`
- ETH: `0x330c1b148368EE4B8756B176f1766d52132f0Ea8`

## Licensing

DNS hosting module for FOSSBilling is licensed under the Apache-2.0 license.
